{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 "CANNIBALIST MANIFESTO"\
BY OSWALD DE ANDRADE TRANSLATED BY LESLIE BARY\
 \
Cannibalism alone unites us. Socially. Economically. Philosophically. \
\
The world's single law. Disguised expression of all individualism, of all collectivisms. Of all religions. Of all peace treaties.\
\
Tupi or not tupi, that is the question.\
\
 Down with every catechism. And down with the Gracchi's mother.\
\
 I am only concerned with what is not mine. Law of Man. Law of the cannibal. \
\
We're tired of all the suspicious Catholic husbands who've been given starring roles. Freud put an end to the mystery of Woman and to other horrors of printed psychology. \
\
What clashed with the truth was clothing, that raincoat placed between the inner and outer worlds. The reaction against the dressed man. American movies will inform us.\
\
 Children of the sun, mother of the living. Discovered and loved ferociously with all the hypocrisy of saudade, by the immigrants, by slaves and by the touristes. In the land of the Great Snake.\
\
It was because we never had grammars, nor collections of old plants. And we never knew what urban, suburban, frontier and continental were. Lazy in the mapamundi of Brazil. A participatory consciousness, a religious rhythmics.\
\
\
 We want the Carib Revolution. Greater than the French Revolution. The unification of all productive revolts for the progress of humanity. Without us, Europe wouldn't even have its meager declaration of the rights of man. The Golden Age heralded by America. The Golden Age. And all the girls. \
\
Montaigne. Natural man. Rousseau. From the French Revolution to Romanticism, to the Bolshevik Revolution, to the Surrealist Revolution and Keyserling's technicized barbarian. We push onward.\
\
We were never catechized. We live by a somnambulistic law. We made Christ to be born in Bahia. \
\
But we never permitted the birth of logic among us. \
\
The illiterate king had told him: put that on paper, but without a lot of lip. The loan was made. Brazilian sugar was signed away. Vieira left the money in Portugal and brought us the lip.\
\
 The spirit refuses to conceive a spirit without a body. Anthropo morphism. Need for the cannibalistic vaccine. To maintain our equilibrium, against meridian religions. And against outside inquisitions. \
\
\
We already had justice, the codification of vengeance. Science, the codification of Magic. Cannibalism. The permanent transformation of the Tabu into a totem.\
\
The Carib instinct. \
\
Down with the vegetable elites. In communication with the soil. \
\
We already had Communism. We already had Surrealist language. The Golden Age. \
\
Magic and life. We had the description and allocation of tangible goods, moral goods, and royal goods.\
\
I asked a man what the Law was. He answered that it was the guarantee of the exercise of possibility. That man was named Galli Mathias. I ate him. \
\
One must depart from a profound atheism in order to arrive at the idea of God. But the Carib didn't need to. Because he had Guaraci. \
\
The created object reacts like the Fallen Angels. Next, Moses day dreams. What do we have to do with that? \
\
We are concretists. Ideas take charge, react, and burn people in public squares. Let's get rid of ideas and other paralyses. By means of routes. Believe in signs; believe in sextants and in stars. \
\
Everyday love and the capitalist way of life. Cannibalism. Absorption of the sacred enemy. To transform him into a totem. The human adventure. The earthly goal. Even so, only the pure elites managed to realize carnal cannibalism, which carries within itself the highest meaning of life and avoids all the ills identified by Freud.\
\
Carnal at first, this instinct becomes elective, and creates friendship. When it is affective, it creates love. When it is speculative, it creates science. It takes detours and moves around. At times it is degraded. Low cannibalism, agglomerated with the sins of catechism?envy, usury, calumny, murder. We are acting against this plague of a supposedly cultured and Christianized peoples. Cannibals. \
\
OSWALD DE ANDRADE In Piratininga, in the 374th Year of the Swallowing of Bishop Sardinha.}